this is the singer 1408 promise sewing
machine and this is a really great
machine especially for utility uses just
a good machine to have around the house
the real nice thing about this machine
is that it's all one dial operation we
basically only have three dials on this
machine this dial is detention that's
pretty much going to stay wherever it
comes set out of the box which is
usually four and here you have lines
between the three four and the five that
basically tells you that you can play
with the tension in that area to get the
the tension to your liking but for the
most part you're just gonna leave it on
for all the time and it's not like a
yesteryears machine where you basically
had to keep pulling with the tension and
it just basically stays set and it's
fine there you know the other knob we
have is this lever here which is simply
reversed to lock in your stitch or sew
backwards you just press and hold that
down it is nice to have it down because
a lot of machines have it where you
press it towards that way and whenever
you press that way the machine will
knock off as you see here and it moves
your machine around
I like the reverse levers that are press
down because obviously you're pressing
down and as you can see no matter how
hard or quick I'm pressing that the
machine's staying put and then we have
our main knob here this is going to be
the knob that you're going to be using
all the time the coolest thing about
this knob is that it controls all your
lengths with everything of your stitch
you just basically turn to the stitch
you want machines ready to sew you don't
have to adjust anything adjust any links
or whit's you just turn it right to the
stitch ready to sew we want to do a
scallop decorative stitch which is here
we just put it on that stitch ready to
sew if we want to do zigzag or really
wide zigzag close together kind of like
a satin stitch here we go we just put it
on that ready to sew if we want to do a
long straight stitch maybe for some
basting or some top stitching just put
it on there it's ready to go it also has
a four step built-in buttonhole the nice
thing about the four-step buttonhole is
that it it sets everything for you again
there's no links or widths or anything
like that to mess with you just do your
step one which is going to be your
bottom you
step2 it's going to sew up the left hand
side step 3 it's going to do the top
turn it to 4 it's going to do the right
hand side also this machine does have a
removable free arm the free arm gives
you a cylindrical surface to sew on this
is great for pants leg sleeves and cuffs
so basically you can fit a cuff or a
sleeve or a pants leg right on here
without having to split the seen so you
have a nice cylindrical surface to sew
on the machine does have a built in
handle right in the top of the machine
and this is a pretty lightweight machine
it only weighs about 17 pounds and it's
a pretty light weight as far as its
weight but not light weight and what it
can do whenever you have your bobbin
winder over here there's no
old-fashioned clutches you have to
disengage or any other buttons you just
simply place your bobbin right there on
the bobbin winder press it over to the
right it disengages the needle no
clutches when ready to so we just press
it over to the right and our needles
ready to go you have two spool pins in
the back of the machine which is really
nice if you ever want to do a twin
needle sewing it's also nice to keep you
can have your thread that you're using
now on here and then you can have you
know a constant color that you use all
the time a black a white a blue
something like that and you can just
have an extra place to store that extra
spool of thread another nice feature on
this machine is the the super easy
threading that it has I'm gonna go ahead
and unthread this machine and basically
everything's number here for you I'm
just gonna put this through this little
guide right here this takes all your
knots and twists out of the thread it
tells you go down for number two around
for number three number four goes around
the take-up lever and then we come down
here number five there's a little clamp
above the needle and then we number six
is obviously threading our needle make
sure whenever you do thread the upper
portion of your machine that you do have
the presser foot in the up position that
ensures proper threading and that's just
some great features of the singer 14:08
promise sewing